README.md, before:

# Getting Started with OpenAPI Generator

Overview

## Description
### Dependency
- `de.qaware.tools.openapi-generator-for-spring`
  - `openapi-generator-for-spring-starter:1.0.1`

## Demo
### OpenAPI Document
```shell script
$ gradle bootRun
```
Access `swagger-ui`
- [http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3072734/107849543-497f3300-6e3f-11eb-8dc3-207e77bf9998.png)

### H2 Database Console
- [http://localhost:8080/h2-console](http://localhost:8080/h2-console)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3072734/107363278-41608400-6b1d-11eb-99d9-c280bf512f6f.png)

### Deploy to Cloud Run
```shell script
$ gcloud beta run deploy employee-app \
    --memory 512Mi \
    --no-allow-unauthenticated \
    --source .
```

#### Access to Service on Cloud Run
```shell script
$ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer "(gcloud auth print-identity-token)"" (gcloud run services list --format json |jq -r .[0].status.url)/api/v1/employees
```

### API Gateway
#### Service Account
```shell script
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create spring-app --display-name "Spring App"
$ gcloud iam service-accounts list
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding (gcloud config get-value project) \
    --member serviceAccount:spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/iam.serviceAccountUser
```

or Use Service Account for Compute
```shell script
$ echo (gcloud projects list --filter=(gcloud config get-value project) --format='value(PROJECT_NUMBER)')-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com
```

#### Add Service Account to Cloud Run as Invoker
```shell script
$ gcloud run services add-iam-policy-binding employee-app \
    --member serviceAccount:spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/run.invoker \
    --platform managed \
    --region us-central1 \
    --project (gcloud config get-value project)
```

#### Enable Services
We enable the following Google services:

|Name|Title|
|----|-----|
|apigateway.googleapis.com|API Gateway API|
|servicemanagement.googleapis.com|Service Management API|
|servicecontrol.googleapis.com|Service Control API|

```shell script
$ gcloud services enable apigateway.googleapis.com
$ gcloud services enable servicemanagement.googleapis.com
$ gcloud services enable servicecontrol.googleapis.com
```

#### Create API Config
```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs create employee-app-config \
    --api employee-app \
    --openapi-spec openapi.yml \
    --project (gcloud config get-value project) \
    --backend-auth-service-account spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs describe employee-app-config \
    --api employee-app \
    --project (gcloud config get-value project)
```

#### Deploy API on API Gateway

```shell script
gcloud api-gateway gateways create shinyay-gateway \
  --api employee-app \
  --api-config employee-app-config \
  --location us-central1 \
  --project (gcloud config get-value project)
```

```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways describe shinyay-gateway --location us-central1
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways describe shinyay-gateway --location us-central1 --format 'value(defaultHostname)'
```

```shell script
$ curl https://(gcloud api-gateway gateways describe shinyay-gateway --location us-central1 --format 'value(defaultHostname)')/api/v1/hello
```

### Clean up
#### Delete API Gateway
```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways delete shinyay-gateway --location us-central1
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways list
```

#### Delete API Config
```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs delete employee-app-config --api employee-app
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs list
```

#### Delete Service Account
```shell script
$ gcloud projects remove-iam-policy-binding (gcloud config get-value project) \
    --member serviceAccount:spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/iam.serviceAccountUser
$ gcloud iam service-accounts delete spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com
```
#### Delete Cloud Run Service
```shell script
$ gcloud run services delete employee-app
```

## Features

- feature:1
- feature:2

## Requirement

## Usage

## Installation

## References
- [OpenAPI v3 generator for Spring Boot](https://github.com/qaware/openapi-generator-for-spring)
- [JSON to YAML](https://www.json2yaml.com/)
- [APIMATIC](https://www.apimatic.io/dashboard)
- [Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/)

## Licence

Released under the [MIT license](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/shinyay/56e54ee4c0e22db8211e05e70a63247e/raw/34c6fdd50d54aa8e23560c296424aeb61599aa71/LICENSE)

## Author

[shinyay](https://github.com/shinyay)

Commit message:

Add description of OpenAPI overview

README.md, after:

# Getting Started with OpenAPI Generator

The OpenAPI Specification (OAS) defines a standard, language-agnostic interface to RESTful APIs which allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities of the service without access to source code, documentation, or through network traffic inspection

## Description
### Dependency
- `de.qaware.tools.openapi-generator-for-spring`
  - `openapi-generator-for-spring-starter:1.0.1`

## Demo
### OpenAPI Document
```shell script
$ gradle bootRun
```
Access `swagger-ui`
- [http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3072734/107849543-497f3300-6e3f-11eb-8dc3-207e77bf9998.png)

### H2 Database Console
- [http://localhost:8080/h2-console](http://localhost:8080/h2-console)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3072734/107363278-41608400-6b1d-11eb-99d9-c280bf512f6f.png)

### Deploy to Cloud Run
```shell script
$ gcloud beta run deploy employee-app \
    --memory 512Mi \
    --no-allow-unauthenticated \
    --source .
```

#### Access to Service on Cloud Run
```shell script
$ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer "(gcloud auth print-identity-token)"" (gcloud run services list --format json |jq -r .[0].status.url)/api/v1/employees
```

### API Gateway
#### Service Account
```shell script
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create spring-app --display-name "Spring App"
$ gcloud iam service-accounts list
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding (gcloud config get-value project) \
    --member serviceAccount:spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/iam.serviceAccountUser
```

or Use Service Account for Compute
```shell script
$ echo (gcloud projects list --filter=(gcloud config get-value project) --format='value(PROJECT_NUMBER)')-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com
```

#### Add Service Account to Cloud Run as Invoker
```shell script
$ gcloud run services add-iam-policy-binding employee-app \
    --member serviceAccount:spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/run.invoker \
    --platform managed \
    --region us-central1 \
    --project (gcloud config get-value project)
```

#### Enable Services
We enable the following Google services:

|Name|Title|
|----|-----|
|apigateway.googleapis.com|API Gateway API|
|servicemanagement.googleapis.com|Service Management API|
|servicecontrol.googleapis.com|Service Control API|

```shell script
$ gcloud services enable apigateway.googleapis.com
$ gcloud services enable servicemanagement.googleapis.com
$ gcloud services enable servicecontrol.googleapis.com
```

#### Create API Config
```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs create employee-app-config \
    --api employee-app \
    --openapi-spec openapi.yml \
    --project (gcloud config get-value project) \
    --backend-auth-service-account spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs describe employee-app-config \
    --api employee-app \
    --project (gcloud config get-value project)
```

#### Deploy API on API Gateway

```shell script
gcloud api-gateway gateways create shinyay-gateway \
  --api employee-app \
  --api-config employee-app-config \
  --location us-central1 \
  --project (gcloud config get-value project)
```

```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways describe shinyay-gateway --location us-central1
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways describe shinyay-gateway --location us-central1 --format 'value(defaultHostname)'
```

```shell script
$ curl https://(gcloud api-gateway gateways describe shinyay-gateway --location us-central1 --format 'value(defaultHostname)')/api/v1/hello
```

### Clean up
#### Delete API Gateway
```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways delete shinyay-gateway --location us-central1
$ gcloud api-gateway gateways list
```

#### Delete API Config
```shell script
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs delete employee-app-config --api employee-app
$ gcloud api-gateway api-configs list
```

#### Delete Service Account
```shell script
$ gcloud projects remove-iam-policy-binding (gcloud config get-value project) \
    --member serviceAccount:spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com \
    --role roles/iam.serviceAccountUser
$ gcloud iam service-accounts delete spring-app@(gcloud config get-value project).iam.gserviceaccount.com
```
#### Delete Cloud Run Service
```shell script
$ gcloud run services delete employee-app
```

## Features

- feature:1
- feature:2

## Requirement

## Usage

## Installation

## References
- [OpenAPI v3 generator for Spring Boot](https://github.com/qaware/openapi-generator-for-spring)
- [JSON to YAML](https://www.json2yaml.com/)
- [APIMATIC](https://www.apimatic.io/dashboard)
- [Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io/)

## Licence

Released under the [MIT license](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/shinyay/56e54ee4c0e22db8211e05e70a63247e/raw/34c6fdd50d54aa8e23560c296424aeb61599aa71/LICENSE)

## Author

[shinyay](https://github.com/shinyay)
